# Hurricane-Microbial-Mesocosms-2021

The code in this repository is for the analysis and figures for the following experiment:

Experimental manipulations were used to independently examine the impacts of bacterioplankton dilution and dissolved organic matter (DOM) additions on microbial communities in order to isolate potential hurricane-associated microbial responses. Experimental conditions included controls, an initial 90% dilution in 0.22 μm filtered coastal seawater and a daily addition of diatom-derived DOM. The DOM was obtained from a lab-grown culture of Skeletonema costatum harvested during exponential growth phase on a 0.8 μm polycarbonate filter.

Each treatment consisted of three replicated 20 L acid-washed, polycarbonate carboys. Carboys were filled at the coastal Piver’s Island Coastal Observatory (PICO) site (34.7181 °N 76.6707 °W) located at the mouth of the Newport River estuary (Johnson et al., 2013; Ward et al., 2017) on July  28th, 2022. 200 µm nylon mesh screened water from 1 m below the surface was pumped into carboys to avoid the presence of large zooplankton. The 90% dilution water was filtered from the same location the day prior using 0.22 µm polythersulfone filters (Steripak). Carboys were incubated in environmental chambers set to ambient seawater temperature and were constantly purged with air filtered through a charcoal filter (Whatman Carbon-Cap 150) at ~10 L/min and stirred at ~200 rpm. Light/dark cycle was set at 12:12 hours at a light level of ~100 μE m−2 s−1. Carboys were incubated in the environmental chamber for five days, during which time the DOM treatment carboys received a daily addition of 10 µM of Skeletonema costatum lysate in order to replicate semi-continuous input of phytoplankton bloom-associated DOM.

